# 1st-project
cmst 183 - project from cmst 135
Hi my name is ryan and I live in Aledo, Tx. 
For my web project I tried to build a website that informs people about Trinity Railway Express railroad. The website will be built to simulate an actual public transit website. The goal of this website was to inform anyone interested about the Trinity Railway Express. The informative items will be train schedules and stations, current rolling stock (industry term meaning types of locomotives and passenger cars used), and the history of Trinity Railway Express. The target audiences was prospective riders and anyone interested in learning the history of Trinity Railway Express. After visiting the website, visitors will know the train schedules, the type of equipment they will be riding on, and the history of the line they are riding on. I tried to design the website with the target audience being a very diverse group of individuals. 
The website includes several pictures of the trains, the alignment, and stations. The site also had some external links to connecting railroads.

Most of my information and media came from the three following websites. A few of the pictures did come from Google images. The video is linked through Youtube. 
https://trinityrailwayexpress.org/
https://ridetrinitymetro.org/
https://www.dart.org/

During my first week I felt like there was a lot of information and it came fast. However, after going through each item a few times it became easier and almost routine by the end of the week. I built my first functional website, although it is very basic.  I was even beginning to memorize a few codes, like line-break "<br>" for example.

The course provided decent step by step instructions. The desired outcome pictures for the excercises were very helpful when coding my page. I would compare my page to the books and if it did not look the same, I knew that I had missed something. I had a little difficulty coding the link to pages withing my own site. Eventually I figured out I had a simple typo that was throwing the entire section off. Sometimes I would enable the Live Preview function in brackets and watch my page build as I would add more lines of code.  

I learned to configure the CSS for every web page on my test site using the external style sheet.  Learning how to code this properly was a little tricky for me in the beginning but I was able to make it work with the reading exercises. Once I figured out how to link the page to the external style sheet it was easier to copy that line to every page and format them all rather than coding it with HTML. Learning how to configure each item separately in the external style sheet was a little confusing at first (h1, h2, nav element, list items..) The class ID selector was the most useful thing when accomplishing this. 

Adjusting a webpage for for mobile and tablet display using separate style sheets was not too difficult. I mostly followed the steps outlined in our textbook. I like being able to see the responsive design when adjusting my browser width. Same with the responsive images. A few items did not adjust and were lost during the adjustment. Maybe eventually I will figure out how to fix this.

I used a 3 column layout for my project. That seems to be a very common layout used. The flexbox and grid layout exercises were pretty easy to follow and worked well. The styling for both those layouts seems to make sense as it gave a lot of flexibility with the sizes of the elements in the layout. 

Part of the project requirements was hainv some sort of interactive form. I liked the form interactions and slider/list functions. I tried to create a form that was simulating customer feedback for their train ride. Arranging the elements within the form was a task I never successfully accomplished. I even had Professor Mertz helping me through Zoom one day for 2 hours and eventually we ran out of time. I ended up leaving it. Also required was some sort of table element. I am fairly experienced with Excel so the rows and columns format was a pretty familiar concept. The only thing that was new was the coding for it. Both chapters did a pretty good job laying out the steps and explanations for coding everything and how the processing functions are used. One thing I could not figure out was how to resize the table dynamically as the website layout adjusted for lower resolution devices. I would have liked the information to reformat in some sort of list, but was never able to get it to work so I just dropped points. 

I enjoyed learning some basic flash, audio, and video coding functions. The drop down menu was also a nice function to learn. The hands on practice for the transitioning image gallery was very visually appealing. Coding all the pictures was a little long but not very difficult. The details and summary list was also easy. Depending on the browser you use, the layout of the page looks a little different. When I built it, I only checked it with Chrome, now opening it with different browsers, the layout for certain elements is a little different. 

Overall I wish I could have gotten the website to look a little more aesthetically appealing. Resizing certain elements, colors, margins & padding, and formatting for different screen resolutions. But I think I got most of the functionality to work. The form, the external links, and the video and images. 
